# Building A Content-Based Recommendation System To Optimize Squad Building For High Gameplay Performance In EA Sports FIFA
Abstract 

EA Sports FIFA is a series of video games based off of soccer/football which is released at the beginning of every new soccer season by EA sports. The most popular game mode in this video game is FIFA Ultimate Team which allows players to build their dream teams and compete against each other through online matchmaking. The introduction of this game mode brought a much more competitive aspect to a casual sports video game. The competitive nature of this game mode progressed with each new installment and ultimately diverted the community from building teams of their favorite players to building teams consisting of players that best fit the meta - the parts of gameplay such as systems, mechanics, and loops that a player repeats to make progress. 

Content-based recommender systems - recommending items to a user based on what the user has previously chosen - were developed by third-party websites which would enable users to build a team with players of their own liking. However, these systems were not optimized for high gameplay performance and thus not providing a competitive advantage to users. The aim of this study is to build a more complex system which would help users build a squad that is optimized for the meta. This is done by collecting audience ratings on each and every player in the game which would enable the novel system to assess the gameplay performance of players through an evaluation threshold. The novel system was inconclusive as the error rates for performance evaluation in the novel recommendation system were too high.  Furthermore, many of the resultant recommendations from the novel system were either worse than or shared with those of third-party systems. A limitation of this study was the validity of the data as it was collected from a less reliable third-party website.

Link to full paper: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ecMJd8wXNAMNVRK1_c8IYdvsNjGuCa4BySMUqxhN_nI/edit?usp=sharing
